---
title: 5-8 Distinguish SEEMS Understand and REAL Understand
date: 2025-05-05
categories: [随笔, 日记]
tags: [日记]
description: 
---
I found the an advantage of reading English articles. 
Concepts whose real meaning you don't yet fully grasp will become more **aparent** through English reading, **whereas** they might be overlooked in Chinese, enven when they **conveying** the same way. 
Professional terms in Chinese can sometimes create a **deceptive sense of similarity**. 
**For instance**, when reading a sentence like“通过扩散器的透射和粗糙表面的反射，可以重建出清晰的图像。”, the professional term is "扩散器“.
However, because it's **constituent** parts, “扩散” and “器”, appear easily understandable, my mind might overlook the complete term and move to next sectence. 
**In reality, however,** I don't actually understand that word and its true meaning.
However, when written in English, that terms is typically presented as a single vocabulary item, 'difuser', and is distinctly seperated from other words in the sentence. 
This is **akin to** insert spaces into a Chinese sentence, **thereby** transforming it into something like: “通过 扩散器 的 透射 和 粗糙 表面 的 反射”.
Once the key term is isolated in this way, you will be more aware of the entire word "扩散器“ and realize your unfamiliarity with its meaning.
This is, **in essense**, what English achieves. 

Meanwhile, this is the reason why I feel I read slowly in English, whereas I read really fast in Chinese. Of course, the key reason is that I don't yet grasp vocabulary enough, But the way sentence were presented is also a key reason. That said, reading English papers can slow down my pace and force me to make an intensive reading. 


> 1. **whereas**, conjunction
> compare or contrast two facts or ideas.
> 
> 2. **decptive**, adjective
> misleading
>
> 3. **for instance**
> for example
> 
> 4. **yet**, adverb and conjunction
>   - Adverb:
>     - Still. Often used in negative sentence or question, hasn't happen but is excepted to.
>     eg: `I haven't finished my homework yet`
>         `I don't yet fully grasp`
>     - Meaning: Even. Often comes before comparative adjectives.
>     eg: `The solution created yet more problems.`
>   - Conjunction
>     - Meaning: Nevertheless. Connect two contrasting ideas.
>     eg: `It's a small car, yet it's surprisingly spacious.`
>
> 5. **therby**
> As a result of that
>
> 6. **akin to**
> Similar to. 
>
> 7. **in essense**
> Fundamentally, Basically
{: .prompt-introduction}