---
title: 5-5 Something of a Breakthrough in Learning English
date: 2025-05-05
categories: [随笔, 日记]
tags: [日记]
description: Improving comprehension by scanning sentences for key words, rather than getting stuck on word-by-word analysis. Somewhat like the mechanism of attension, ATTENTION IS ALL YOU NEED.
---
To my surprise, I feel I've had something of a breakthrough in learning English. I realized attempting to comprehend sentences word by word is largely ineffective. Instead, scanning the whole sentence to grasp the key words, which are usually nouns, is a more productive way. Certain conjunctions and fixed structures are also crucial, but I still **yet** have a **sufficient** grasp of them, because I didn't have too much exposures to them through practice. This priciple extends to spoken English as well, just placing suitable pauses after key words and **infusing** them with appropriate emotion, will make the one's delivery sounds more natural. **Ultimately**, the **strategy** should not be reading the sentence word by word, **but rather to** scan them and locate the key words, which will help me understand the sentence's meaning rapidly.

I took Cambridge IELTS **Past Papers** 17, test 1 this afternoon. The result seems to be catastrophic. I merely got 4.5 in listening and 4 in reading comprehension, which is rather **discouraging**. **I am not familiar with** the structure of the exam, maybe in the next practice test I will get a alightly higher scores, but it would still be insufficient. So I did some intensive listening after the practice test。Understanding the material didn't required too much effort from me, but it is really difficult for me to answer the questions while listening. 
I think the only **way to solving** (I highlight it because the used of gerund here, Gemini said that way to + gerund) this problem is to increase my daily exposure to English material.

While **revising** the diary above, I gained another insight that shifting components within a sentence can be an effective way to make writing more engaging.
